Can you imagine going to see something
like Project Hail Mary for the first
time and just walking into the theater
halfway through the movie? It seems
crazy to us now, but doing this used to
be pretty common in the early days of
moviegoing. It's why the poster for
Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho says it is
required you see Psycho from the very
beginning. Before the 1960s, most movies
just played on a loop in the theater.
You paid for admission, and if you came
in late, you could just stick around and
watch what you missed when the movie
started over. This worked okay for many
of the formulaic westerns, comedies, and
musicals that played at the time. But
Hitchcock knew that a more plot-driven
thriller like Psycho, with all its
twists and turns, wouldn't even make
sense if you just came in halfway
through the movie. So, he used some
playful marketing to help enforce a
strict starting showtime, and in the
process helped create the way of
attending movies that feels so normal
now, it's hard to imagine we ever did it
differently.